artificial intelligence is making rapid
strides there's talk of a new evolution
that could fundamentally change life on
our planet artificial intelligence has
the potential to revolutionize every
aspect of daily life work mobility
medicine the economy and communication
but will AI really make medicine better
and dr. superfluous
when will self-driving cars hit our
roads will intelligent robots usurp our
jobs and are we heading for a dystopia
with no privacy in total surveillance
what exactly is artificial intelligence
and how much can it really do what will
change and what will remain pure fantasy
to answer these questions we embarked on
an exciting journey to meet the
scientists working on our future in the
US Britain Germany and China
[Music]
our first stop Silicon Valley in
California Apple Google and Facebook all
have their headquarters here it's the
epicenter of the digital revolution the
tech industry has changed the face of
the San Francisco Bay Area new startup
companies launch everyday rents have
exploded and artificial intelligence is
the buzzword a new type of supermarket
recently opened its doors here amazon go
all you need here is a nap hold your
mobile phone to the scanner and you're
in
[Music]
as Leonardo shows me Amazon's new menus
and explains that the language assistant
Alexa can help with the preparation at
home I'm under constant surveillance
which shelf do I stop at which products
am i interested in
on the ceiling sensors and cameras
intelligent image recognition captures
my every move what do I take off the
shelf what do I put back and what do I
take with me this branch is still in its
test phase but Amazon plans to open 50
such grocery stores this year alone the
end of the sales assistant just walk out
no more standing in line no cashiers I
feel a bit like a shoplifter as I leave
comfort at the cost of privacy my
receipt one block away
a robot cafe another test lab for the
future
order by app and touchscreen the
increasingly ubiquitous terms of trade
my first ever cup of coffee served by a
robot so this is the taste of the future
AI will change our shopping experience
but what will happen to employees
[Music]
Stanford University is at the forefront
of global AI research with an annual
budget of 6.5 billion dollars
I want to know how will artificial
intelligence change medicine researchers
here have developed an artificial
intelligence algorithm that can screen
x-rays for certain diseases computer
scientists Pranav raj poor car shows me
how easy it is to use take a picture of
an x-ray with your mobile phone upload
the image in a few seconds later you get
the diagnosis it's a mass and it's
saying this thing over here is it
possibly cancerous lesion and I can see
that right over here okay so it gives
you if I may have a look at it now
probabilities for pneumonia inaudible
edema effusion and that goes bang yeah
now that's this work I mean how did you
get to the point we started with the
large data set of chest x-rays which
were released by the NIH and these
contained x-rays and then also labels of
different pathologies and whether they
existed in those extra so it might say
okay here's an image and on this image I
have pathology one two and three and we
had a hundred thousand of these images
so we trained a model that can take in
it as an input an x-ray and then output
the probability of several different
pathologies on this x-ray
artificial intelligence is modeled on
the human brain a gigantic network of
almost 100 billion interconnected
neurons
put in very simple terms this is how a
brain cell works incoming impulses are
passed in a domino effect from one
neuron to the next the resulting circuit
connects the neurons and it is this
circuit that artificial intelligence
tries to simulate as a digital neural
network like our brains the network can
learn how to identify tuberculosis for
instance first the network needs to be
trained or taught x-rays of tuberculosis
patients are fed to the system initially
it struggles to correctly identify the
condition but every time an x-ray is fed
in the network's structure is adapted
and its diagnostic ability improves it
takes thousands and thousands of
clinical data sets to train the machine
only after the network is optimized in
this way can it correctly identify an
unknown x-ray
[Music]
but how accurate is artificial
intelligence compared to a doctor's
expertise we have actually done this
test twice at this point once with a set
of studies from the NIH data set that we
had a group of radiologists label and
then we compared the accuracy of the
model to the radiologists and we found
that they were very similar in terms of
accuracy on most pathologies on one of
them the model was outperforming the
radiologists on three of them the
radiologists were outperforming the
model and then we repeated the
experiment this time using a data set
from Stanford which we recently released
which is two hundred thousand chest
x-rays and then we had a similar setup
where we had three subspecialty
radiologists these are very uncommon
very trained radiologists to decide what
the ground truth for a particular set of
images was and then we compared general
radiologists to the algorithm at the
task and found that they had similar
levels of performance these are all
Stanford radiologists so so they're that
they're trained should be good yeah
[Music]
reading x-rays accurately is a
complicated process but artificial
intelligence is making fast progress
when it comes to identifying or
recognizing simple images computers have
surpassed human accuracy now if I look
at your picture it's always
probabilities so there are cases where
the machine is not really sure what what
would be sort of a clear decision to say
okay this is I don't know
pneumonia or something else yeah I think
I mean I think it's good to talk in
terms of probabilities because
probabilities also give a sense of the
algorithm the models uncertainty on that
particular problem I think one
difficulty with probabilities is that it
does make it hard for humans to
interpret like what is the probability
of 88 percent versus 92 percent mean in
terms of the decision I should make in
the clinic and so I think in that sense
one of the things that we could
experiment with doing in the futures
rather than showing probabilities that
are so fine-grained maybe we can show
things like unlikely or thus pathologies
likely or this pathology is possible
in healthcare artificial intelligence is
powering a revolution scientists are
using artificial intelligence algorithms
to sift through seemingly banal data
such as the up-and-down motion of the
steps we take every day they're looking
for conspicuous patterns that could
serve as early warning signs of disease
scientists in the English city of
Birmingham are working on a
revolutionary diagnostic method to date
there are no specific tests to detect
Parkinson's disease making diagnosis
difficult AI could change that
max little is a mathematician at Aston
University
[Music]
very good you just voice changes can be
an early indicator of Parkinson's Max
and his team collected thousands of
vocal recordings and fed them to an
algorithm they developed which learned
to detect differences in voice patterns
between people with and without the
condition in a lab based study of the
recordings the algorithm was able to
correctly identify a Parkinson's
diagnosis nearly 99% of the time Max
littles work is an example of the
far-reaching changes ai is bringing to
the field of medicine it's no longer
just doctors who are using artificial
intelligence to develop new diagnostic
methods but data scientists programmers
and mathematicians like max one example
when a person walks sensors in their
smartphone register the up-and-down
motion of their gait but what
information can be gleaned from such
data if we measured a pattern of
someone's walking behavior then someone
who's healthy might have we might
measure the accelerometer to look like
that okay so it's just the sort of
movement you would have yeah their hips
going up and down regularly that kind of
thing along with their pace
but if you looked at some of your
Parkinson's disease they may have these
small steps like this and they may be
irregular or they may have patterns like
that well they may even freeze and stop
like that so you you can see that
there's not a different there's a
difference so you can also now train an
algorithm for instance to pick out
features like what is there the distance
between the time distance between these
these Peaks and it could also do the
same with this and it would be able to
do that very precisely and by doing so
we may be able to measure for instance
to here that there's a large variability
in between these so the advantage the
algorithm really comes when the for
instance you might have somebody who who
is say who measures a pattern which
looks like this and it might just be one
small change perhaps that occurs very
very maybe not like that but sort of you
know some variation that's right in the
in the sequence of these in the timing
of these these events even to a
professional eye because they don't have
the level of precision they may not be
able to detect that this is outside of
the normal range of a variation but of
course an algorithm connected to a high
precision sensor well you know we'll be
able to determine that difference and in
this case this person here may in fact
have a precursor symptom of the disease
so this would mean that this person with
the help of an algorithm could be
diagnosed as having Parkinson whereas
the doctor himself would miss him out
[Music]
that could for the first time make it
possible to detect precursor symptoms of
Parkinson's and enable early
intervention but what else does the data
on our smartphones reveal right now you
have already apps tracking your
so-called
activity yeah so in fact the data hmm
well the data potentially could be there
that's right but there are ethics about
whether we collect that kind of data and
use it for for these sorts of purposes
now clearly we can't just collect this
data and start diagnosing people which
journalists we should not know
absolutely look we could we could but we
really wouldn't want to there are very
good reasons not to do it and that there
may be good reasons for doing it as well
but that's the kind of thing that needs
that needs to be worked through in a in
a proper you know regulated setting
[Music]
after our interview max little tells me
he's received several lucrative offers
to join tech giants who smell new
business opportunities
he turned them down artificial
intelligence will undoubtedly improve
doctors abilities to detect and diagnose
disease but amid all the opportunities
AI offers there's an urgent need for
regulation we're on our way to China
a country that has experienced
breathtaking change in recent years its
capital Beijing is buzzing the whole
country is hungry for progress and is on
a fast track to the future time seems to
move faster here by the year 2030 China
aims to be the global leader in the
field of artificial intelligence and
there's a lot to indicate it will meet
that goal because the government has
Bank world subsidy programs worth
billions of euros
[Music]
these robots aren't assembling cars
there the big attraction in Beijing's
latest smart restaurant
i in the kitchen and automated waiters
I have a meeting here with the design
researcher geisha you'll stay a former
Internet ambassador for the German
government she's currently spending a
research semester at Tong jean
University in Shanghai I asked her about
her impressions of China there's this
real hunger in the city and it's super
fun to talk to young people because they
want to be the motors of change they
work day and night they have a new
work-life balance model it's called nine
nine six I thought what do you mean nine
nine six and they said we work from 9:00
a.m. to 9:00 p.m. six days a week that's
the better model now because they used
to just work non-stop but no one's
stopping them no one's hitting the
brakes they work like crazy because they
want to bring about change this
restaurant cost 20 million dollars which
is the one restaurant they've invested
this huge sum to digitize the entire
operation they aren't just robots
serving the food the whole kitchen is
digitized refrigeration has monitored
supply chains are monitored there are
dashboards for everything everything is
connected here where they're testing
what works and which aspects can be
implemented in other restaurants of this
chain that's the idea here to just try
things and to think big thank you
[Music]
so I'll just help myself if I may
anyhow but what about privacy they seem
to be a trade-off between security and
privacy
you often hear how AI has increased
Public Safety for instance that the
ability of surveillance cameras have
dramatically increased the crime solving
rate it's hard for us to relate to
because privacy and personal rights are
so important for Germans but here
there's a different tradition and take
on the issue
I'm fascinated by China but it also
puzzles me
how can they be reconciled the high
civilization of ancient China and the
modern industrial state with
surveillance cameras everywhere
[Music]
the long-gone district in Shenzhen in
the heart of China's booming economic
region north of Hong Kong we visit the
smart city control center a giant
monitor displays the data of the entire
district in real-time numbers of new
residents by neighborhood to plan
schools water supply levels power
outages all this information is
collected compiled and evaluated using
artificial intelligence the showcase
project was developed with Chinese tech
giant Huawei chief engineer Chen bomb ty
tells me the city now operates more
efficiently so what you're doing here is
urban planning yes the systems are a big
help
these are hospital beds right now there
are 15,000 doctors and nurses and 7600
beds so a Shenzhen currently healthier
sick
[Music]
a smart surveillance system scans the
entire city illegal structures like this
one on a roof are quickly identified and
demolished to me some of this feels like
the backdrop to a science fiction movie
employees with livestreaming body cams
inspect side streets this is total
surveillance
[Music]
chan shows me how cameras installed in
restaurant kitchens even keep tabs on
cleanliness but doesn't the chef mind
being monitored all the time the system
logs all the people who view the images
anyone who looks at them without
permission is total transparency for the
purpose of progress Chen says residents
of Leung Gong District approve
jaywalking is not allowed and offenders
are immediately identified look here you
jaywalk once and right away your social
credit score drops
this degree of surveillance is
unthinkable in the West but here in
China they take a different view and say
it's driven a drop in crime what does it
say here male youth without glasses you
yes suddenly you're a youth I love
Chinese facial recognition uses a
transparent society in the interest of
efficiency some of this appears useful
but do we really want to measure control
and analyse everything just because it's
technically possible won't that
inevitably lead us down a road to data
dictatorship
maybe trust is better than smart control
[Music]
Silicon Valley a synonym for innovation
and unlimited freedom the biggest
players in the field of AI are based
here but their headquarters are hidden
behind inconspicuous low-rise buildings
Facebook we use their services entrust
them with our data but the company is
impervious to the public a selfie at the
entrance gate is just about tolerated
[Music]
next door at Apple the visitor centers
3d model of the campus is as close as
non-employees can get to the new
building what's going on inside
[Music]
it's all confidential
we want to visit Google here in
California and requested an interview
weeks before our arrival but all we get
are stalling tactics like these visitors
Google leaves us out in the cold apart
from a small store this is the only
visitor highlight accessible to the
public these Android lawn statues are
even a designated location on Google
Maps welcome to Google
[Applause]
uber steed annoyed in Visio via vApp
suta Facebook refused to answer
questions the personnel to Facebook the
European Union handing Google a 2.7
billion dollar antitrust fine these
companies command growing power over our
daily lives and growing political
influence Google spends more than 6
million euros a year lobbying brussels
alone the e use transparency register
lists more than 200 meetings with Google
representatives since 2014 Google is the
busiest lobbyist in Brussels we finally
get our interview not in California but
in Munich Germany with one of the
longest-serving employees yen's made ma
how important is AI for Google kaya is
fully I is so important to us that two
years ago we rebranded our entire
research to mission to Google AiAi
drives a significant part of our product
development a I above all drives a
significant part of our efforts to
improve the quality of our products take
machine translation through the use of
machine algorithms we've seen faster
progress over the last two years than we
did over the entire previous decade
Society will undoubtedly be propelled
forward by the implementation of these
services and the use of AI in the years
to come what's key is that it's done
responsibly under the principles of
transparency we need to explain how
things work why they are needed where
people's data goes how they can control
it how they can delete it if they want
to delete it the user must have the
control design
but what about technologies like Google
home the smart microphone sitting in
people's living rooms Google home who at
Google home isn't East dropping there's
a small chip on the device that listens
out for the so called hot word it's
waiting for the command
ok Google or hey Google and only then is
the microphone switched on to send a
voice command for search requests into
the Internet the Google server it then
presents the results Google Suzanne done
there's are giving us a present yen this
heist so as a science reporter I'm
naturally curious about the future
there's this patent application from
September 2016 Google's application
gives a detailed account of what can be
deduced from household noises how long
we brush our teeth whether we argue or
whether a housemate is ill Thank You
disinvite it's much more about capturing
atmosphere and habits than words and
it's a Google patent application that
anyone can look up misty sue I don't
know anything about this particular
patent application we have a whole
series of patent applications every year
most of them are imaginary fictitious
services which like in many other
companies are never translated into real
services so I can't say anything about
this particular patent at this point
it's very important it's antisocial
anytime
patents for imaginary fictitious
services Google's EU lobbying activities
at least are unarguably real
[Music]
the off how much does Google intervene
in the EU I think the more important
question is the one that lies between
the lines namely how ethically does a
company deal with product development
and we have set our own rules according
to principles that guide our own actions
research and product development that
also guides our business decisions like
a chef's and try them on its home turf
in the United States
Google is facing mounting political
pressure in Washington we meet Barry
Lynn head of the think-tank open market
Institute he warns of the dangers posed
by tech giant's influence we need to
know in our society that the people who
bring information to the public sphere
who talked to the press who talked to
the representatives in Congress that
they represent their own selves that
they're speaking in their own name and
not for someone else that they're not
stooges that they're not puppets and the
fact is today our society this is true
here in Washington is true in Europe our
society is filled with puppets with
Stooges who represent the interests of
Google and Facebook and Amazon
given Big Tex monopoly power calls for
regulation are growing louder in
Washington when you have a monopoly
whether it's over retail whether it's
over search then it means that the the
public doesn't actually have the ability
to understand how that information is
being used how that power is being used
but not only Percy unless it is
regulated closely by the public is a
danger Google means to take over the
world they mean to direct our thoughts
between person and person our
communications between person and person
our dealings and business between person
and corporation they mean to direct
everything that they can they want to
know what's going on in our thermostats
in our houses they want to know what
we're watching on TV they are at a level
of hubris that even the the Stalinist
could never have imagined pushing for
Google Facebook Amazon will the
influence of tech giants continue to
grow what can be done to rein in their
monopolies one thing is clear artificial
intelligence is consolidating their grip
on power
there's an urgent need to rethink
antitrust policy
[Music]
mobility is another area in which AI is
powering the march of innovation in the
near future it could put self-driving
cars on city roads but how realistic is
this vision we've come to Boston to the
prestigious Massachusetts Institute of
Technology sir touch Caramon is a
leading expert in the field of
self-driving cars
he and his team are working on prototype
autonomous vehicles I think that we've
nailed a couple items with computers and
machines one is all of this mapping and
localization all the technology works
super well computers can know where they
are within centimeter maybe sometimes
even millimeter precision very more than
what is required to drive computers are
now able to look around and understand
where everybody else's but that's not
that's not what's required for driving
what's really required is to understand
what's going to happen next in the next
three seconds five seconds next minutes
maybe you know sometimes next hour and
so that's the key missing piece and I
think the problem there is that right
now it's very hard for you to describe
to me how you understand whether or not
a person is gonna use the sidewalk or is
gonna use the crosswalk and cross the
street sometimes you look at the face of
a person and that facial impression
gives them away and you will slow down
sometimes not they may be looking at the
same direction they may be standing in
the same location it's just a little
face impression maybe just the way they
stand then unfortunately that kind of
intuition gut feeling and so on is very
hard for us to program into the
computers it works in a simple lab
environment but in real-life settings
the algorithms are still totally out of
their depth not that that bothers
advertisers
[Music]
our test drives were nothing but a
series of glitches an inexplicable
emergency stop and another one on the
second attempt
the sensors on this vehicle were
overtaxed by a car parked on the curb
and here this smart car overlooked a car
veering into our lane well that didn't
work
talking to the MIT engineers it becomes
clear that to build a self-driving car
developers need to meet a massive scale
of technical requirements what I think
about fully autonomous cars is that I
think I'll be very surprised if it
happens in less than 10 years also I
will be very surprised I'm a big
believer I'd be very surprised if it
doesn't happen in 20 30 years I think it
will happen at some point but I do think
that people really underestimate the
kind of technology required to be built
to make your car fully autonomous under
every condition every circumstance every
whatsoever that's the very hard part
[Music]
[Applause]
no fun driving is not as trivial a
process as you might think and that's
because you constantly have to watch
what's going on around you cyclists
pedestrians sometimes you have to
second-guess does this guy want to cross
the road or not it's hard to imagine all
that being calculated automatically
[Music]
ultimate sponsor a self-driving vehicle
would have to be able to deal with all
of this - here we have a truck doing a
three-point turn
I may have to back up now if he doesn't
make it
[Music]
does she want to cross the road or not
some people don't even wait
[Music]
the fully autonomous car is a distant
dream but driver assistance systems are
already making our roads safer an
accident filmed from a car equipped with
emergency brake assist the sequence of
events can be assessed in slow motion
the red vehicle ahead overlooks the
upcoming traffic jam no brake lights
appear but the distance sensor in this
car registers the jam brakes and
prevents a further collision but which
principles should guide decisions made
by technology in an accident situation
in recent years mi t--'s media lab has
been addressing the ethical questions
raised by artificial intelligence
what moral compass should future smart
devices refer to
eeeh Travan is one of the world's
leading experts on such issues he and
his team developed a survey called the
moral machine to explore ethics for
programming autonomous vehicles like in
the event of an accident most of the
time people don't remember anything and
people have no time to react everything
happens very quickly so they just are
surprised maybe they see something in
front of them and they just swerve in
some random direction or maybe they just
freak out and press the brakes so you
cannot expect a human being to do the
right thing in that small exactly in
that in such a small time scale unless
you know they they made a decision
beforehand like you know did they drink
and drive or did they know that they
were going to cross a red light then you
blame them but otherwise you can't
really blame the human but with a
machine because of the speed of the
electronics because the autonomous car
is evaluating the environment you know
millions of times per second then time
goes much slower for the machine and
it's able to recalculate the situation
and maybe recalculate the strategy and
this is where we can make a potentially
better judgement and or whatever random
choice the human used to make in this
situation now what is better though is a
very interesting question and it's not
obvious let's see a case where we have
people versus people so now we have the
vehicle has two people inside of it okay
and it's going to either swerve and hit
the barrier so the people will die in
the car or the car will go straight and
kill all the pedestrians the pedestrians
who are crossing illegally but there are
also women and these the people in the
car are males so now it gets very
complicated very quickly should you
prioritize women over men or should
everybody be the same should you
prioritize pedestrian over passenger or
not should you take into account the
fact that people are crossing illegally
in this case and so as you can see
once you have multiple dimensions it
becomes not obvious what the right thing
to do is a or B who should die the
elderly lady crossing on red or the
child in the self-driving car what
choice should the algorithm make d ads
online survey presents respondents with
various scenarios each with its own
unique dilemma respondents are then
asked to choose how they would want an
algorithm to decide so as a result we
have 40 million decisions and they're
still counting from people all over the
world and it enables us to start
analyzing what do people agree on but
also how do they differ
[Music]
so does our culture influence our moral
judgments
people always agree on saving more lives
saving children saving people who cross
legally over people who don't cross
legally and so on the most interesting
part is you could pick a country mm-hmm
like Germany yes really and you could
see how they compared to the global
average you could see okay so the status
is not really important but what you can
see much as many is preferring in X yeah
so if you don't have to if you prefer to
just go straight yes which is the
default don't take a decision exactly
this means Germans don't like to take a
decision yes you say close your eyes and
go and just go so so this means in other
words you can see a bit the acceptance
of technology taking a decision and the
more you say in action means means that
the car goes straight here okay
fate a comparison of Germany and France
reveals cultural differences
the French tend to favor sparing women
and there's a stronger focus on children
and contrary to Germans the French don't
want to leave things to fate they want
the machine to make the decision and the
machine is kind of a mirror for the
first time something that you did
subconsciously or maybe instinctively in
the case of an accident you know you
just act randomly now you have to make a
conscious choice and the machine is
forcing you to make a choice right you
cannot you cannot hand waive it because
in the end you have to program something
driverless cars aren't yet ready for the
road and ethical questions still abound
artificial intelligence harbors immense
potential to benefit daily life medicine
or mobility but we also need to look
beyond the technical possibilities what
aim does such progress serve it's a
question artificial intelligence
algorithms can't answer only humankind
can do that
[Music]
you